title: "BuddhaBlog"
tags: blog,open-source,framework
date: 2019-04-14T21:26:25Z
header: "https://d1u0z01nzsqzn7.cloudfront.net/images/forest_path.jpg" # Replace this with a new image
----Content Below This Line----

Well its been almost two years since my last post and there's just too much to cover, so I'll gloss over some big news: I've ended an amazing 4-year run at [Bugcrowd](https://bugcrowd.com). I joined as a Software Engineer in 2015, and ended 4 years and 25 days later as a Staff Engineer. I loved every minute of it and can't overstate how much I grew and learned as an engineer, a collaborator, a student, and a mentor.

My reasons for leaving? It was time to strike a better balance between music production/composition and development. I hope to write more on my music production process and adventures in Logic Pro X, film composition, etc. But that will have to wait-- I came here to announce BuddhaBlog.


> <a href="https://github.com/Timmehs/buddhablog" target="_blank">BuddhaBlog</a>: *A static blog generator in Node and React*

I've decided to genericize the code that generates this blog into its own package, and build up tooling and other improvements around it. It's a great excuse to explore SEO in single page apps, and architect my own funky solution for a convenient, lightweight static blog generator. Not to mention getting more familiar with actually publishing packages.

I've always lost patience messing around with Jekyll.  While I do want to continue to streamline layout and styling of BuddhaBlog, I want to make sure the nuts and bolts are exposed for tweaking, but clean.  Jekyll's markdown and transpilation process just always seemed a little opaque. Like I said though, I'll admit I never gave it much of a shot. 

But my little script for generating a post already has BuddhaBlog feeling more instantly gratifying as something you can just crack open and start writing.

Another nice thing I've either forgotten about or just realized, I can see a live preview of this post as I type just by running the site in dev mode alongside it. It updates whenever I <kbd>cmd</kbd>+<kbd>s</kbd>. ezpz.